EF6 to EF Core porting guide (#3509)
dotnet/EntityFramework.Docs: entity-framework/efcore-and-ef6/porting/port-database.md

---
title: Port from EF6 to EF Core - Database as Source of Truth
description: How to port from EF6 to EF Core when you generate your model from the database.
author: jeremylikness
ms.alias: jeliknes
ms.date: 10/25/2021
uid: efcore-and-ef6/porting/port-database
---

# Port from EF6 to EF Core - Database as Source of Truth

> If you're using the database as the source of truth, your migration will mostly involve addressing any changes to the shape of entities generated. The steps to migrate include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using the database as the source of truth, the upgrade will mostly involve addressing any changes to the shape of entities generated. The steps to migrate include:
```

You may want to consider an alternate workflow and follow steps similar to the [hybrid approach](/ef/efcore-and-ef6/porting/port-hybrid). Instead of generating a new set of classes each time, you indicate specific tables to only generate new classes. You keep existing classes "as is" and directly add or remove properties that changed. You then update the model configuration to address any changes in how the database maps to your existing classes.

## Customize the code generation

As of EF Core 6, it is possible to customize the code generated by scaffolding by using [T4 templates](/visualstudio/modeling/code-generation-and-t4-text-templates). See [T4 and EF Core Reverse Engineering](https://www.bricelam.net/2020/02/03/t4-and-efcore.html) for details.

> 

Reviewer 2: There are also third party tools, that offer additional ways of customizing the generated code. (with link to tools page?)

You may want to consider an alternate workflow and follow steps similar to the [hybrid approach](/ef/efcore-and-ef6/porting/port-hybrid). Instead of generating a new set of classes each time, you indicate specific tables to only generate new classes. You keep existing classes "as is" and directly add or remove properties that changed. You then update the model configuration to address any changes in how the database maps to your existing classes.

## Customize the code generation

As of EF Core 6, it is possible to customize the code generated by scaffolding by using [T4 templates](/visualstudio/modeling/code-generation-and-t4-text-templates). See [T4 and EF Core Reverse Engineering](https://www.bricelam.net/2020/02/03/t4-and-efcore.html) for details.

> There are third party solutions like [EF Core Power Tools](https://github.com/ErikEJ/EFCorePowerTools/wiki) that are available. For a complete list of community tools and extensions, see: [EF Core Tools and Extensions](/ef/core/extensions/).

Reviewer 3: Surely this is not a complete list (which is guaranteed to stay that way)? Maybe more like:
`For a list of featured community tools and extensions, ...`

Author: Good point! Fixed.

If you're using the database as the source of truth, your migration will mostly involve addressing any changes to the shape of entities generated. The steps to migrate include:

1. Pick a point-in-time to model the database.
1. Ensure your EF6 projects are up to date and in-sync with the database.
1. Create the EF Core project.

> 1. Use the [scaffolding tools](/ef/core/managing-schemas/scaffolding) to reverse-engineer your database to code.

Reviewer 4: I think we should reference Erik's Power Tools here.

## Customize the code generation

> As of EF Core 6, it is possible to customize the code generated by scaffolding by using [T4 templates](/visualstudio/modeling/code-generation-and-t4-text-templates). See [T4 and EF Core Reverse Engineering](https://www.bricelam.net/2020/02/03/t4-and-efcore.html) for details.

Reviewer 4: "As of EF Core 6, it is possible to customize..." It is currently **not** possible.
